README.md, before:

# 🎯 NVIDIA Patent Analytics

A comprehensive toolkit for filtering, analyzing, and visualizing NVIDIA Corporation's patent portfolio from USPTO PatentsView data.

![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.7+-blue.svg)
![Pandas](https://img.shields.io/badge/pandas-1.3%2B-green.svg)

## 📋 Overview

This project provides end-to-end tools for patent analytics:
- **Data Extraction**: Filter NVIDIA patents from massive USPTO datasets (9M+ records)
- **Data Processing**: Convert TSV to CSV format for analysis
- **Visualization**: Framework for creating Excel dashboards and charts

## 📊 Project Structure

```
nvidia-patent-analytics/
│
├── data_raw/                     # Raw USPTO data files (not in repo)
│   ├── g_patent.tsv
│   ├── g_cpc_current.tsv
│   ├── g_assignee_disambiguated.tsv
│   ├── g_inventor_disambiguated.tsv
│   ├── g_patent_abstract.tsv
│   └── README.md
│
├── data_cleaned/                 # Filtered NVIDIA data (CSV format)
│   ├── nvidia_patent.csv
│   ├── nvidia_inventor.csv
│   ├── nvidia_cpc.csv
│   ├── nvidia_assignee.csv
│   ├── nvidia_patent_abstract.csv
│   └── README.md
│
├── data_excel/                   # Excel format data files
│   ├── nvidia_patent.xlsx
│   ├── nvidia_inventor.xlsx
│   ├── nvidia_cpc.xlsx
│   ├── nvidia_assignee.xlsx
│   ├── nvidia_patent_abstract.xlsx
│   └── README.md
│
├── excel_dashboard/              # Visualization outputs
│   └── README.md
│
├── filter_nvidia_patents.py      # Main filtering script
├── convert_tsv_to_csv.py        # TSV to CSV converter
├── convert_csv_to_excel.py      # CSV to Excel converter
├── requirements.txt              # Python dependencies
└── README.md                     # This file
```

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.7+
- pandas library

### Installation

1. **Clone the repository:**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/nvidia-patent-analytics.git
   cd nvidia-patent-analytics
   ```

2. **Install dependencies:**
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

3. **Download USPTO data:**
   - Visit [PatentsView Downloads](https://patentsview.org/download/data-download-tables)
   - Download the 5 required TSV files (see `data_raw/README.md`)
   - Place them in the `data_raw/` directory

### Usage

#### Step 1: Filter NVIDIA Patents

```bash
python filter_nvidia_patents.py
```

**Output:** Extracts ~5,169 NVIDIA patents from 9M+ total patents and saves filtered CSV files to `data_cleaned/`

#### Step 2: (Optional) Convert TSV to CSV

```bash
python convert_tsv_to_csv.py
```

**Output:** Converts TSV files to CSV format with proper quoting

#### Step 3: (Optional) Convert CSV to Excel

```bash
python convert_csv_to_excel.py
```

**Output:** Converts the 5 filtered CSV files to Excel format (.xlsx) and saves them in `data_excel/`

#### Step 4: Create Visualizations

Use the filtered data (CSV or Excel format) to create dashboards in Excel, Tableau, or Python (matplotlib/seaborn).

## 📈 Sample Results

Based on October 2025 USPTO data:

| Metric | Value |
|--------|-------|
| Total NVIDIA Patents | 5,169 |
| Patent Records | 5,169 |
| Abstracts | 5,169 |
| CPC Classifications | 29,580 |
| Inventor Records | 16,402 |
| Unique Inventors | ~3,000+ |

## 🎨 Visualization Ideas

### Recommended Charts

1. **Line Chart**: Patents filed per year (trend analysis)
2. **Treemap**: Technology areas by CPC classification
3. **Bar Chart**: Top 20 inventors by patent count
4. **Stacked Area Chart**: Patent types over time
5. **Network Graph**: Inventor collaboration networks
6. **Heatmap**: Filing activity by year and technology class
7. **Box Plot**: Claims distribution over time

## 📝 Data Source

All data sourced from [USPTO PatentsView](https://patentsview.org/), a comprehensive database of U.S. patent data:
- Updated quarterly
- Includes patents back to 1976
- Disambiguated inventor and assignee names
- Standardized CPC classifications

## 🔧 Configuration

### Customizing the Filter

To filter patents for a different company, edit `filter_nvidia_patents.py`:

```python
# Change this line:
nvidia_assignee = assignee_df[
    assignee_df["disambig_assignee_organization"].str.contains("NVIDIA", case=False, na=False)
]

# To:
target_assignee = assignee_df[
    assignee_df["disambig_assignee_organization"].str.contains("YOUR_COMPANY", case=False, na=False)
]
```

## 📦 File Sizes

Be aware of large file sizes when downloading USPTO data:

| File | Rows | Size |
|------|------|------|
| g_patent.tsv | ~9.2M | ~2GB |
| g_assignee_disambiguated.tsv | ~8.5M | ~1.5GB |
| g_inventor_disambiguated.tsv | ~23.4M | ~3GB |
| g_cpc_current.tsv | ~57.1M | ~4GB |
| g_patent_abstract.tsv | ~9.2M | ~5.7GB |

**Total:** ~16GB of raw data

## 🐛 Troubleshooting

### Large File Processing

For machines with limited RAM, consider:
- Processing files in chunks
- Filtering data before analysis

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions welcome! Areas for improvement:
- Python visualization scripts
- International patent data integration
- Machine learning models for patent classification
- Network analysis of inventor collaborations

## 📄 License

MIT License - Free to use for research, commercial, and educational purposes.

## 🔗 Useful Resources

- [USPTO PatentsView](https://patentsview.org/)
- [CPC Classification System](https://www.cooperativepatentclassification.org/)
- [Patent Data Visualization Examples](https://patentsview.org/visualizations)

## 📧 Contact

For questions, issues, or collaboration opportunities, please open an issue on GitHub.

---

**Built with ❤️ for patent researchers, data scientists, and innovation analysts**

Commit message:

Remove data_excel and excel_dashboard folders

README.md, after:

# 🎯 NVIDIA Patent Analytics

A comprehensive toolkit for filtering, analyzing, and visualizing NVIDIA Corporation's patent portfolio from USPTO PatentsView data.

![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.7+-blue.svg)
![Pandas](https://img.shields.io/badge/pandas-1.3%2B-green.svg)

## 📋 Overview

This project provides end-to-end tools for patent analytics:
- **Data Extraction**: Filter NVIDIA patents from massive USPTO datasets (9M+ records)
- **Data Processing**: Convert TSV to CSV format for analysis

## 📊 Project Structure

```
nvidia-patent-analytics/
│
├── data_raw/                     # Raw USPTO data files (not in repo)
│   ├── g_patent.tsv
│   ├── g_cpc_current.tsv
│   ├── g_assignee_disambiguated.tsv
│   ├── g_inventor_disambiguated.tsv
│   ├── g_patent_abstract.tsv
│   └── README.md
│
├── data_cleaned/                 # Filtered NVIDIA data (CSV format)
│   ├── nvidia_patent.csv
│   ├── nvidia_inventor.csv
│   ├── nvidia_cpc.csv
│   ├── nvidia_assignee.csv
│   ├── nvidia_patent_abstract.csv
│   └── README.md
│
├── filter_nvidia_patents.py      # Main filtering script
├── convert_tsv_to_csv.py        # TSV to CSV converter
├── requirements.txt              # Python dependencies
└── README.md                     # This file
```

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.7+
- pandas library

### Installation

1. **Clone the repository:**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/nvidia-patent-analytics.git
   cd nvidia-patent-analytics
   ```

2. **Install dependencies:**
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

3. **Download USPTO data:**
   - Visit [PatentsView Downloads](https://patentsview.org/download/data-download-tables)
   - Download the 5 required TSV files (see `data_raw/README.md`)
   - Place them in the `data_raw/` directory

### Usage

#### Step 1: Filter NVIDIA Patents

```bash
python filter_nvidia_patents.py
```

**Output:** Extracts ~5,169 NVIDIA patents from 9M+ total patents and saves filtered CSV files to `data_cleaned/`

#### Step 2: (Optional) Convert TSV to CSV

```bash
python convert_tsv_to_csv.py
```

**Output:** Converts TSV files to CSV format with proper quoting

#### Step 3: Analyze the Data

Use the filtered CSV data to perform analysis with Python (pandas, matplotlib/seaborn), Excel, Tableau, or other data analysis tools.

## 📈 Sample Results

Based on October 2025 USPTO data:

| Metric | Value |
|--------|-------|
| Total NVIDIA Patents | 5,169 |
| Patent Records | 5,169 |
| Abstracts | 5,169 |
| CPC Classifications | 29,580 |
| Inventor Records | 16,402 |
| Unique Inventors | ~3,000+ |

## 🎨 Visualization Ideas

### Recommended Charts

1. **Line Chart**: Patents filed per year (trend analysis)
2. **Treemap**: Technology areas by CPC classification
3. **Bar Chart**: Top 20 inventors by patent count
4. **Stacked Area Chart**: Patent types over time
5. **Network Graph**: Inventor collaboration networks
6. **Heatmap**: Filing activity by year and technology class
7. **Box Plot**: Claims distribution over time

## 📝 Data Source

All data sourced from [USPTO PatentsView](https://patentsview.org/), a comprehensive database of U.S. patent data:
- Updated quarterly
- Includes patents back to 1976
- Disambiguated inventor and assignee names
- Standardized CPC classifications

## 🔧 Configuration

### Customizing the Filter

To filter patents for a different company, edit `filter_nvidia_patents.py`:

```python
# Change this line:
nvidia_assignee = assignee_df[
    assignee_df["disambig_assignee_organization"].str.contains("NVIDIA", case=False, na=False)
]

# To:
target_assignee = assignee_df[
    assignee_df["disambig_assignee_organization"].str.contains("YOUR_COMPANY", case=False, na=False)
]
```

## 📦 File Sizes

Be aware of large file sizes when downloading USPTO data:

| File | Rows | Size |
|------|------|------|
| g_patent.tsv | ~9.2M | ~2GB |
| g_assignee_disambiguated.tsv | ~8.5M | ~1.5GB |
| g_inventor_disambiguated.tsv | ~23.4M | ~3GB |
| g_cpc_current.tsv | ~57.1M | ~4GB |
| g_patent_abstract.tsv | ~9.2M | ~5.7GB |

**Total:** ~16GB of raw data

## 🐛 Troubleshooting

### Large File Processing

For machines with limited RAM, consider:
- Processing files in chunks
- Filtering data before analysis

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions welcome! Areas for improvement:
- Python visualization scripts
- International patent data integration
- Machine learning models for patent classification
- Network analysis of inventor collaborations

## 📄 License

MIT License - Free to use for research, commercial, and educational purposes.

## 🔗 Useful Resources

- [USPTO PatentsView](https://patentsview.org/)
- [CPC Classification System](https://www.cooperativepatentclassification.org/)
- [Patent Data Visualization Examples](https://patentsview.org/visualizations)

## 📧 Contact

For questions, issues, or collaboration opportunities, please open an issue on GitHub.

---

**Built with ❤️ for patent researchers, data scientists, and innovation analysts**
